You might have noticed that the Orders table is very limited in its scope.
It can hold only one type of item.
We have two columns that describe the item.
One is the item name,
and then the other is the number of
item count which describes the count of that item in that order.
So which means, you can have only one type of item in an order.
It is unreasonable to expect the customer to place
one order for each type of item that they want to buy.
How do we solve this?
We learned that in relational databases rows of
multiple tables can be made related using foreign keys.
Let's use that feature to support orders with multiple types of items.
We're going to create a table to hold items for the order.
All right. I've created a table here called Order Item.
The important thing to note here is that the order ID in
the order item table is a foreign key to the order ID in the orders table.
A foreign key is a column in one table that refers to the primary key in another table.
The table containing the foreign key is called the child table,
and the table containing the candidate key is called the parent table.
The foreign key constraint also prevents
invalid data from being inserted into the foreign key column,
because it has to be one of the values contained in the table it points to.
Now, for every type of item in the order,
a row can be inserted in the order item table referring the order ID,
thus supporting orders with multiple types of items.
Since we don't store the items in the order table anymore,
let's drop those columns.
I use the same ALTER TABLE statement,
the orders table instead of add column,
I'm specifying DROP COLUMN which actually deletes the column.
So we are going to remove the item name and the item count.
Sorry, I had two semi-colons there. Let's try it again.
Looks like the item count got already deleted.
So let's take a look at the orders table.
Yes, item name and item count already got deleted.
So let's take a look at the Order Item table that we have created.
It has all the columns that we included in the CREATE TABLE statement.
This is how you do foreign
key relationships between multiple tables in a relational database.